Versus
Game for Master System 
1.02	18 Apr 2015	hang-on

Now there is almost less than eleven months to next year's compo! This calls for celebration: I hereby present Versus!
Introduction

Versus is a Pong clone for the Sega Master System. It is designed to run on an NTSC system (60 hz). 
It is pretty straight forward to navigate and play. The players take up the roles of Nya and Ken, 
two Pong-playing, competing siblings. The first player to score 9 points wins the match. That's it! 
Even though Pong is best played against a real human, this game can also cater to an intense 
one-player Pong showdown, thanks to the built-in, always Pong-ready AI.

Depending on where it hits the paddle, the ball is deflected either upwards or downwards. 
Every time the ball is deflected by a paddle, its speed increases for a still longer time period. 
After a little while, the ball swirls fast between the two players. Every time the ball is served 
from the center line, its speed is reset.

Versus is built with tools and knowledge from the SMS-Power! community. Thanks to Maxim (BMP2Tile), 
Bock (Meka), Calindro (Emulicious), and sverx (PSGLib and vgm2psg)!

At the time of writing, the SMS-Power 18th anniversary compo is finishing, and it has been very 
inspiring to be a part of it. Greetings to my fellow contestants!

The title screen smash hit was composed on Delek's Deflemask tracker, with arpeggio inspiration 
from jrlepage, and drum/bass inspiration from TmEE's compo entry this year.

The visual style of the in-game assets is inspired by the Pong tutorial at Rembound.

A Pong-clone is not breaking new ground on the SMS homebrew scene. Greetings to homsar47 and 
haroldoop who have also experimented with this classic game.

Please refer to the readme included in the source package for some details on the coding approach.

Tip: If you think the AI is a little too tough, you can activate the secret easy mode by holding 
down left on player 1's joystick, while you select "play" from the pre-match menu. 
For the rest of the match, the AI will be a little slower. 